u27 live recorder — verification gates — 2026-07-17T02:33:03Z
worktree: unit-live-recorder-a296 · branch bgsd-0002-cv-data-collection-funne/unit-live-recorder-a296

npx tsc --noEmit            : PASS (clean)
npm run lint                : PASS (0 errors, 0 warnings; ZERO eslint-disable added anywhere)
npm run build               : PASS
  /[locale]/collect             -> ● SSG, prerendered per locale (en, es)
  /[locale]/collect/status/[id] -> ƒ Dynamic (correct: the id is request-time only)
  all 5 pre-existing capture API routes still registered dynamic (untouched)

New tests (this unit):
  test-capture-gating.mjs         PASS  62 checks — haversine vs an independent
                                        reference, the both-gates rule, the lazy-gray
                                        perf contract, dedupe, blur, session caps,
                                        drop tallies, segments, manifest guards.
  verify-u27-recorder.mjs         PASS  23 checks — real Chromium, real fake camera
                                        device (--use-fake-device-for-media-stream),
                                        scripted GPS walk through Escazú at 390px.

Pre-existing repo tests (regression — manual flow and contracts untouched):
  test-upload-client.mjs          PASS  27 checks (26 pre-existing + 1 added, below)
  test-capture-schemas.mjs        PASS
  test-matching-baseline.mjs      PASS
  test-apply-submissions.mjs      PASS
  test-submission-counts.mjs      PASS
  test-parse-feature-props.mjs    PASS
  test-rate-limit-namespaces.mjs  PASS
  test-honeypot-type.mjs          PASS
  test-capture-migrations.mjs     PASS
  test-import-dryrun.mjs          PASS

Playwright drive (next start :3145), all 23 green:
  start -> record -> stop -> review -> upload -> done -> status, EN + ES, light + dark.
  7 frames captured from a real decoded MediaStream over a ~60 m scripted walk.
  OPFS probed via page.evaluate mid-walk: 7 manifest frames / 7 .jpg files / 7 fixes.
  501 stub path surfaces "Uploads are not switched on yet"; frames stay in OPFS; retry offered.
  Reload after a failed upload offers the unfinished walk back.
  OPFS swept to 0 sessions after a successful (mocked) upload.
  0 console errors (tile/network noise filtered as environmental and listed in the report).

DEFECT FOUND AND FIXED (cross-unit, in u25's lib/capture/upload-client.ts):
  uploadCapture could NEVER have uploaded from a browser. All 4 call sites did
  `opts.fetchImpl ?? globalThis.fetch`, passing fetch detached from its receiver;
  browsers require this===Window and throw "Illegal invocation". It threw on
  createSession, the first call of the funnel. Every u25 node test passed because
  undici ignores the receiver — the only runtime that tolerates it is the one the
  tests run in. Fixed via a bound defaultFetch() (commit f22b47d); no signature
  changed. Regression test added that fakes the browser rule; verified honest
  (FAILS with the fix reverted, PASSES with it applied). Escalated to the Conductor.

NOT verified (honest gaps — see MANUAL-VERIFY.md):
  - Real iOS Safari: camera facingMode, wake lock, OPFS createWritable support,
    and backgrounding. All four are physics a desk browser cannot answer, and OPFS
    on Safari is the single largest unknown in this unit.
  - The two vision thresholds (duplicateDelta 2, blurVariance 40) are UNCALIBRATED
    estimates. Synthetic frames bracket them; real Escazú footage has not.
  - uploadFrameBytes against a live streetlens-frames bucket: it does not exist
    until 0013 is applied, so the Supabase storage endpoint is stubbed at the
    network layer. Request shape exercised; the bucket's RLS policy is not.
  - Live end-to-end against real /api/capture routes: they are 501 stubs owned by
    the ingest unit, landing this same wave. Proven at the wave boundary, not here.

POST-REVIEW FIXES (adversarial review of the u27 diff; 7 real bugs found and fixed,
commit 0a1c2f3 — each was a path the gates could not see):
  1. A refused camera still entered "recording", unmounting the only screen that
     renders the camera error. Walker saw a black preview, a live REC dot and a
     frozen frame count with no explanation. useCamera.start now RETURNS its
     settled state and start() refuses to open a session without a stream.
     Regression check added to the drive (path C).
  2. The camera was never released on either auto-stop path, so hitting the
     400-frame cap (the normal end of a long walk) left the recording indicator
     lit through review, upload and done.
  3. The 30-minute duration cap could never fire: it was only checked after a
     frame was KEPT, and it exists precisely for the walk where frames are not
     being kept. A phone in a pocket recorded forever holding the wake lock.
     Now enforced on the 1 Hz tick.
  4. Auto-stop never snapshotted the track, so a capped walk reached review with
     a blank map contradicting its own "N GPS fixes" stat.
  5. QuotaExceededError was masked: `finally { close() }` on an errored stream
     rejects with its own TypeError and replaces the pending exception, so the
     storage-full state was unreachable dead code. Now aborts and rethrows.
  6. keepFrame produced one unhandled rejection per kept frame on any write
     error. Now terminates the chain and tallies a new honest "write_failed" drop
     reason instead of failing silently.
  7. discard() bypassed the write queue and could race a pending putManifest into
     resurrecting a manifest whose frame bytes were gone, offering a recovery
     that recovers nothing. Now queued like every other write.
  (1)-(4) and (7) collapse into one finishSession() close-out path, since every
  one of them was a path that skipped a step stop() already did correctly.
